In this video, we’re going to dive deeper into Thing Descriptions by exploring one of their core concepts — Interaction
Affordances.
As we previously learned, a TD serves as a description of the possible interactions with a device or service, defined
as Interaction Affordances.
An Interaction Affordance is one of three types: a property, an action, or an event.
An affordance is defined not only by its semantic role, but by accompanying metadata, such as interaction metadata, made up
of a data schema describing the input and output structure, and forms specifying protocol bindings.
To understand this better, we'll expand on the example from the last video. This is a snippet of the interaction
affordances of a smart coffee machine. How an affordance is actually activated — e.g., via a network request — will
be covered in a later video.
Properties define the state, sensor values, or configuration parameters of a Thing.
They can be read, observed, or written to.
In our example, `coffeeBeansLeft` is a property that returns the number of grams of coffee beans remaining in the machine.
This property can be read, but neither observed nor written to.
Actions define operations that a Consumer application can trigger.
These are used when something needs to happen within the Thing, like starting a process or performing a task.
For instance, `brewCoffee` is an action that starts brewing a cup of coffee.
It takes an input — the volume of coffee to brew — and is invoked by the Consumer.
Events represent notifications that a Thing emits to the subscribers of the event, often asynchronously.
These are used for real-time updates or alerts.
In this case, `lowOnWater` is an event triggered when the water level is low.
A Consumer can subscribe to this event and be notified when it occurs.
This event definition currently has no data field, meaning it simply signals that the condition occured.
However, events can also carry data — for example, `lowOnWater` could include the exact volume of water remaining in milliliters.
Each affordance includes interaction metadata, which provide context about how it can be used, including the following:
title and description - these are human-readable labels
flags: only applicable to properties; such as `readOnly`, `writeOnly`, or `observable`
subtypes: only applicable to actions - they may be `safe`, ` idempotent`, or `synchronous`
This metadata ensures clients know how to interact with the affordance over the network.
Alongside the given examples, there are additional, more technical forms of interaction metadata, which we will introduce and explain in
future tutorials, once the fundamentals are clear.
Interaction affordances also define data schemas that describe the structure of inputs and outputs.
These schemas use JSON Schema — as introduced in our preliminary series — to define data types, allowed values, and
nested structures.
In our example, the `brewCoffee` action expects an input object with a size property, which must be either "`small`", "`medium`",
or "`large`".
Any interaction affordance can also have structured data, regardless of its type: here, the event lowOnWater includes a numeric value
Similarly, the property coffeeBeansLeft specifies a number between 0 and 500 - representing the grams of beans available.
Data schemas are crucial for validation, tooling, and interoperability.
That wraps up this tutorial. In the next video, we’ll dive deeper into protocol bindings and learn exactly how to
interact with a Thing over the network.